"" this documment is my report for my time interning at Siemens. updated weekly ""


In the first week of my time at Siemens mobility AG, was the onboarding where I was familiaraised with the company grounds, company rules, my colleagues as well as my work station. For thew most part I was educated on where I need to go for certain queries, as well as who I would need to speak with concerning said queries. In addition to that, I was given a work computer which I was tasked with setting up both my credentials to garner Local Admin Rights and a developer environment for the IXL project. It took a week to conclude the formalities mentioned above, including setting up my work station as there were complication with the onboarding that caused the entire process to be drawn out longer than expected. Nevertheless, by the end of week 1, it was a partial success in the sense that I was finally able to access the basic software needed for everyday  activities such as mail, company portal and the siemens code repository.

Shortly after week two commenced, I was assigned my first task. This assignment was to familiarize myself with theory governing the framework for setting up the baseline measurement algorithms, of which includes a number of RFC (request for comment) entries published by the IEFT community. Some important entries of note were RFC 791 (IP SPECIFICATION), RFC 4656 (ONE WAY ACTIVE MEASUREMENT PROTOCOL), RFC 2679 (ONE WAY PACKET DELAY), RFC 2680 (ONE WAY PACKET LOSS), RFC 5136 (IP NETWORK CAPACITY), RFC 2698 (TWO RATE THREE COLOR MARKER). A number of these entries propose multiple ways of actively measuring and monitoring network traffic, with caveats that one must account for due to a number of limitations occurring at the various network layers. When applying these methodologies suggested in the RFC's, one must account for the limitiations present at that layer and the heuristics applied to overcome  such hindrances.

In the case of our project, which is ONE WAY PASSIVE MEASUREMENT PROTOCOL (OWPMP), it differs from OWAMP in a few select ways. Similar to the TWAMP (TWO WAY ACTIVE MEASUREMENT PROTOCOL), the active measurement protocol requires a control algortihim which initiates the transmission of packets between host, therefore making it known exactly when measurement should take place
